Here is what you should do before you start writing your resume.
First.
You first have to decide what it is you're aiming for.
This applies to both new job seekers and to those who simply wish to embark on a new phase of their
career.
Brainstorm what you enjoyed doing and think for your priorities.
Ask yourself important questions about where you would like your career to go and where you like to
see yourself in five or ten years.
You may also take a professional test online or talk to a professional about your career orientation.
Second.
Compile important information.
You already have a dream job in mind.
Great.
The next step is figuring out what an employer in that field is looking for in an ideal candidate and
prepare accordingly to create a competitive resume.
Be sure to compile these important information relevant to previous work experience, including specific
dates of employment, pertinent certifications, licenses, awards, honors and activities, a list
of publications, portfolio, and analyze the concrete skills that led to your success.
If this is your first ever resume, start by thinking about your achievements from school or any other
extracurricular activities.
However, if your next job is in a completely new field, you need to identify and present transferable
skills between jobs.
First fakes your online persona.
In this age of social media, your LinkedIn profile is quickly becoming a must have on your resume.
An important step to preparing your resume is optimizing your LinkedIn.
You can also consider cleaning out your social media, making your accounts private, and having a proper
profile picture.
For choosing the right format resume is usually fall on the one of three formats reverse, chronological,
functional, or a combination of both.
Each of these formats has their own advantages and disadvantages.
Here is a quick explanation of the differences between the three formats.
Reverse chronological.
This is the most commonly used style in this type of resume.
Work experiences is listed along with relevant job duties, which makes up the bulk of the resume.
This is the most popular type of resume and is also preferred by most recruiters.
Functional.
This format might be helpful if you desire a career change but do not have much related experience.
If your employment histories unstable or if you don't have any professional experience instead of focusing
on your working history, this type of resume focuses on the different skills that you have acquired
along the way.
Combination as a title indicates, this type of resume is a combination of the chronological and functional
resume.
This type may be used when there is more than five years of work experience.
Faith.
Word choice.
Most companies now run resumes for an applicant tracking system ATS that will scan your resume for relevant
keywords.
If your resume doesn't hit enough of the keywords, your resume may never even reach human eyes.
A quick search of similar job postings should inform you what keywords have a direct link with your
industry.
Use these keywords.
Enter your resume.
Also, use action groups.
They help create an impact when you are delivering information to another reader.
When used to weave in their resume, action verbs help the application package stand out from the other
submissions.
You can find a list of different action groups of four different areas of expertise to download.
Let's check out an example of catching the right keywords.
You can spot keywords from any section from a job description.
However, the qualification or profile section states the exact qualifications you need for the job.
You might have experience with certain technical tools or be fluent in other languages, or have great
customer skills or be results driven.
Make sure you include the found keywords into your besame.
They will drastically increase your chances to capture a recruiter's attention.
Now let's conclude with what to do before writing your resume.
Figure out what you love doing and see yourself in 510 years.
Compiling important information related to your work experience and dates of employment.
Clean up your social media and complete your LinkedIn profile.
Choose your format.
Reverse chronological is the most appreciated by recruiters and choose the keywords.
The keywords of course, related to your industry and see you in the next chapter.